Guru Puja
Apavitra Pavitrova Sarvavasthan
Ghatkopar Vivah yash Mare
Pundari Kaksham Sabha Kya Dhyan
Tarasuh Achhi Awahan Anand
Narayanam Padmanabham
Vashishtha. Mum Shaktiman
Chatakpur Putra Parasharam cha
Yasam Shuklam Gauda Padam
Mahatyam Govinda. Yogi Indra
Matas Sheesham Tree
Shankaracharya
Kashyap Padma Pahadan Shasta
Malakand Chesham Tantrokta
Kambar Tikakaran Ananyan Asmat
Gurun Santhamani Thosani Shruti
Smriti puranam Aalayam
Karunalayam Namami Bhagavath
Padhan Shankaram Loka Shankaram
Shankaram Shankaracharya Ram
Keshavam Bhadra Yanam sutra
bhashya krutoi vande Bhagavanto.
Punhani yeh dware Nikhila. Nilim
parishad Siddham vidhate Nisham
Shreemat Shri lasitha Hum jagat
kurupatham natwa atma tripti amtala loka agnana Payoda
pathanapuram
Shri Shankaram Sharma Dham
Brahmananda Saraswati m
Charchari Brahmam dhyayami jyothir Malayalam Aavahanam
samarpayami Shri Guru Charana
Kamala Buono namah
Asanam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana Kamali byo namaha
Snanam Samarpayami Sri Guru
Charana Kamala Bio Namaha
Vastram Samarpayami Sri Guru
Charana Kamala legyo Namah
Chandanam Samarpayami Sri Guru
Charana Kamala Aegyo Namaha
Pushpam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana Kamali Video Namaha
Dhupam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana kamale Bio Namaha
Deepam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana Kamali bhyo Namaha
Achamaniyam Samarpayami Sri Guru
Charana Kamala bhyo Namaha
Naivedyam Samarpayami. Sri
Gurucharana kamale. Bhyo Namaha
Achamaniyam Samarpayami Sri Guru
Charana Kamala. Bhyo Namaha
Tambulam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana Kamale Beauty Namaha
Shree Jalam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana Kamale Bio Namaha
RTI Khan
Karpuragauran A M Karunavataram
Shamshad Prasaran Bhujegi
Chandraharam Sadham Santhanam
Hridayam
11 The Bhavam Bhavani Sahitam
Janani.
Aarti Kaam Samarpayami Sri Guru
Charana Kamali Video Namah.
Achamaniyam Samarpayami Sri
Gurucharana Kamali Bhyo Namaha
Pushpan Jalin
Gururbramhaa Gururvishnu
Guru Devo Maheshwara Guru
Sakshat Param Brahma Tasmai
Shree Gurave Namaha Akanda
Amandala Karam Vyapam Yen
Characharam Kathgodam Darshitam
Yen a Tasmai Shree Gurave Namah
Shree Brahmanandam
Paramasukhadam Kevalam
Gnanamurthy Him Vishwanath
Cheetham Gaganasadrishan
Tatvamasi Aadi lakshyam ekam
Nityam Vimala Macham Sarvadi
Sakshi Bhootham Bhavathi Geetham
Trigunayat Sahityam Sadgurum Tam
Namami Agnana Timirbaran Dasya
Nanjana Shala Kaya Chakshuon
Military Am yeh na tasmai shree
gurave Namaha
Pushpanjali Aim samarpayami Sri
Guru Charana Kamala Byo Namaha
Show.
Please take a few minutes
and remind yourself of the tools from inner engineering.
Every hour give yourself a crash course in inner engineering.
Before Shambhavi you give yourself a 2 minute crash
course.
Just remind yourself of a few things.
Just remind yourself. It takes 2
minutes consciously, not just as
thoughts consciously.
6:00 o'clock
reminder
7:00 o'clock another inner engineering crash course. Every
hour you take it.
Suppose you are so messed up every. Take it every half an
hour. Yes, it just takes a minute,
Just takes a minute where everybody. You just need the
reminder.
If you just live like that every moment, fantastic.
Obviously If it's wearing out within a period of time, you are
not living like that. You remind yourself.
If you remind yourself every hour, you will see it will last
through the day.
It would be best if you remind yourself every moment,
but if you are not that aware at least once an hour,
you do that and see it will work wonderfully.
Remind yourself,
all the rules are my rules.
I am responsible for everything.
What is there right now is all the rest. It cannot be any other
way.
I am not this body. I am not this mind.
And I'm a mother to the world.
Domasara Naganarayan
Dhamma Somaji
Saute Ganaraya
Nritya Yurman Nrityanganaaen
Gyan
Odom Shanti Shanti Shanti
ye hai.
Sadguru has guided us to do 40
minutes of Maha mantra chanting
AUM namah Shivaya.
We will do it together. Now
please set an Ardha Siddhasana with your palms facing upwards.
Please close your eyes and chant along with Sadhguru
Nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya Han
nama shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah Shivaya
yeah ah
nama shivaya. Namah Shivaya
I am I
Nama shivaya ham
amma shivaya
Yeah.
Nama Shivaya.
Yeah, I
Mama Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah, namah Shivaya.
I am. I
nama Shivaya.
Haan namah shivaya.
Yeah, yeah.
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah,
nama Shivaya.
Yeah
nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya.
Yeah hai namah shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya
nama Shivaya
shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya haan
Nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai
Nama shivaya Han?
Nama shivaya haan namah shivaya.
I hi
nama shivaya hai
namah shivaya.
Yeah ah. Namah shivaya.
Jaya. Namah. Shivaya. Namah
Shivaya
I Hi
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya
yeah,
Shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai
nama Shivaya.
I am. I
nama Shivaya.
Yeah hai
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai,
Mama
haan namah shivaya.
I am
Haan nama Shivaya.
I Hi
nama Shivaya
haan namah shivaya
Yeah
haan namah shivaya
yeah. I
nama Shivaya
haan namah shivaya.
I Hi, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
haan namah Shivaya.
Yeah. I namah shivaya
haan namah shivaya.
I Hi,
Mama Shivaya.
Yeah.
Haan Namah Shivaya.
Yeah
haan namah shivaya
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya
haan namah shivaya.
Yeah.
Haan namah Shivaya.
Yeah, I
nama Shivaya.
Yeah.
Haan namah shivaya.
I Hi, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
haan namah shivaya.
My I
nama shivaya
haan namah shivaya.
I Hi
nama shivaya
haan
haan nama shivaya hai namah shivaya
yeah.
Nama shivaya ham. Namah shivaya.
Yeah.
Namah shivaya.
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah, yeah.
Nama Shivaya
yeah?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya,
yeah.
Namah shivaya
yeah.
Haan Namah shivaya
I I
nama shivaya. Haan
nama shivaya?
Ah namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah, Mama Shivaya.
I I
nama Shivaya
yeah. Ah namah Shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya namah shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya hai
nama Shivaya.
I Hi Namah Shivaya.
Yeah, ah namah Shivaya.
Yeah, ah
nama shivaya
haan namah shivaya Hai
nama shivaya.
Yeah, hai. Namah Shivaya.
Yeah, yeah.
Shivaya namah Shivaya.
Yeah, hi nama shivaya. Hai
nama shivaya?
I hand
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya
Yeah I
nama shivaya hai
shivaya. Namah Shivaya
I Hi
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya haan Nam
shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai
namah shivaya.
Yeah ah namah shivaya.
Yeah I namah shivaya
Yeah yeah I namah shivaya.
I I shivaay hai
namah shivaya
Yeah? I namah shivaya
kya namah shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai
nama Shivaya.
I am I
nama Shivaya
haan namah shivaya.
Yeah. Ah Namah Shivaya.
I Hi, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah
nama shivaya.
Namah shivaya.
I Hi Namah Shivaya
Yeah, yeah. Ah namah Shivaya.
Yeah, I
nama Shivaya. Namah Shivaya.
I am I
Maha Shivaya.
Yeah, Hai. Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah.
Namah Shivaya
kya namah shivaya.
I Hi
nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya
Yeah. I namah shivaya
IAH
nama shivaya haan namah shivaya.
I Hi.
Nama shivaya hai
namah shivaya.
Yeah. Ah.
Nama shivaya
yeah hai namah shivaya
Yeah. Namah shivaya
I Hi
nama shivaya hai.
Namah shivaya
Yeah. I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya namah Shivaya
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Namah shivaya
yeah. I
nama Shivaya hai.
Shivaya hai
nama shivaya ham
nama shivaya hai
namah shivaya
Yeah, I
nama shivaya namah shivaya.
I am I
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah Namah Shivaya.
IAH
namah shivaya.
I am I namah shivaya.
I I namah Shivaya
yeah?
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya Han
nama shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah shivaya
yeah ah namah shivaya
my I
nama shivaya Hai
nama shivaya? Haan
nama shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya
Yeah ah
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya?
Haan namah shivaya.
Yeah,
nama shivaya.
Yeah, I
nama Shivaya
haan namah shivaya. Hai
nama shivaya.
Yeah, Hai. Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah
haan namah shivaya
Jaya ah namah shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya Hai
nama shivaya?
Yeah, yeah. I namah Shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya namah shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya
yeah? I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah Shivaya
yeah.
Haan Namah shivaya
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah shivaya
yeah. I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya
I Hart
nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya
I I
nama shivaya
Yeah hai namah shivaya. Haan namah shivaya
I. Hi
nama shivaya hai?
Namah shivaya
yeah ah
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya ham
Nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya Han namah shivaya
shivaya ham?
Amma Shivaya
Yeah
Nama shivaya.
Jaya Namah Shivaya,
Yeah. I Namah Shivaya.
Yeah
nama shivaya. Hai
nama shivaya.
Namah shivaya.
Yeah ah namah shivaya.
Yeah. I Mama shivaya
haan namah Shivaya.
I Hi
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya
IAI
amma shivaya
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya hand
namah shivaya.
Yeah I namah shivaya.
IAH
nama shivaya namah shivaya.
I Hi, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah, yeah.
Nama Shivaya.
Yeah, yeah.
Nama shivaya hai,
Mama. Shivaya namah. Shivaya
I hi
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya namah shivaya.
IAH
namah shivaya.
Yeah. Namah Shivaya.
I Hi Namah Shivaya
Jaya Namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah namah shivaya
Jaya namah shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya haan
nama shivaya hai
namah shivaya.
Yeah I
nama shivaya hai namah shivaya
I am ah namah shivaya.
I Hi, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
nama shivaya.
Yeah, I
nama shivaya namah Shivaya.
I am I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah shivaya
yeah? Ah namah Shivaya
IAH
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah Shivaya
yeah.
Haan Namah shivaya
kya
shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya
I Hart
nama shivaya hai
namah shivaya.
Yeah.
Haan namah shivaya.
Yeah. Hi Namah Shivaya.
I am I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya Han
shivaya haan namah shivaya
I. Hi
nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya
haan nama shivaya?
I I
nama Shivaya,
Yeah. Ah, namah Shivaya.
I Hi
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya
Jaya namah shivaya
Yeah. I
nama shivaya hai. Namah shivaya
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama Shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya hai?
Namah Shivaya
Yeah ah.
Namah shivaya
I I
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya
yeah hai?
Nama shivaya hai
nama Shivaya.
I am I
nama shivaya Han
nama shivaya hai namah shivaya.
I Hi, Namah Shivaya.
Yeah,
Namah Shivaya.
Yeah. Ah Namah Shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya hai. Namah shivaya.
I hi
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai?
Nama shivaya Han?
Nama shivaya namah Shivaya
I hi
nama shivaya hai.
Namah shivaya
yeah ah
nama shivaya hai.
Nama shivaya hai
nama shivaya? Haan
nama shivaya ham namah shivaya.
Yeah. Ah nama shivaya.
I I
nama shivaya namah shivaya.
I Hi
nama Shivaya
shanti shanti
shanti shanti.
When we want to cross the boundaries of our present
existence,
you need madness in your heart
but absolute balance in your head.
This is the Southern
to bring
the fire of madness in our hearts,
but absolute stability and stillness in our minds
and dynamism in our bodies.
For this to happen,
sadhana is very important.
Otherwise, there is no other way.
But also
finding rhythm
with the natural processes that are happening.
Yes,
is significant, if not absolutely important.
Why
waste
something that supporting us when it is available free?
If you were to say sale
and the oceans
without powered ships of today, if it is sale
now,
every little breeze and wind
you are watching out because this will decide whether you
going to go somewhere or go nowhere
our end up in the wrong place.
Well, there was a time when I
was
flying Hang lighters.
There will be days.
Go to the mountain Cliff
and sit there and sit there and sit there.
Wait for the right win to come.
They have been days, weeks where we sat there, sat there, sat
there but never flew.
But if you get little impatient and think, OK, let what the
hell, let me try it.
Those people
flew away.
So there was a saying among the hang light of pilots.
No bold old pilots?
Sure.
All
because
when there is a natural assistance, best to use it.
Sudha month of Margali is coming
16th of December to 14th. 15th
of January is Margali till 14th is Margali.
What this means is
in terms of inertia.
In the northern hemisphere of the planet,
this is a month where the inertia is at its highest.
That means
you tend to become like that
unknowingly. Everything slows down.
Physical body
tries to slow down.
We must make sure we are active, otherwise
body slowing down is not just about the body. It will also
suck the mind into it and make it little depressive.
It is recorded everywhere in the world.
Then during the winter months,
the volume of psychological depressive conditions are
multiply. I don't know the stats, but
they multiply
because naturally there may be other aspects. Their social
activities and other things have come down. Those are also there,
but it's a fact. Well established
that if you sprout a seed in the month of March,
how it will sprout? If you try to sprout the same seed in this
Margali between December and
January, how it will sprout?
There is a difference.
It's because of this. In southern India, it was almost
like band A woman should never conceive in this month.
If she conceives in this month, it could be not so developed
kind of baby coming out. You know,
I didn't point that anybody.
So a lot of precautions being taken to see that a woman does
not conceive in this month because what sprouts in this
month will not be of the best quality.
There are stories in the tradition which says during
Margali month you don't do anything auspicious. Women
should not conceive
all kinds of things.
And they say at this time certain spirits will come upon
you and you will become dumb. So you should not do any business
deals. Any auspicious things you should not do because you will
do a stupid deal.
So when things are slowing down like this, it's good to do
certain things. This is why you started lighting the lamps all
over the place
because lamp light, fire energy make some difference. Today you
may not understand the difference because everywhere
electric lights are on and you visually don't feel it and
essentially you are nearly 70%
or more
totally visually dependent on perception.
We take away your eyes or your site.
Nearly 70% of your perception is gone. Other things
not working so much.
We can change it and we should change it. This is one aspect of
yoga
that is, we bring down the visual perception.
The proportion of the visual perception. Not that you want to
lose your eyesight, no
you bring it down. Thats the idea of closing your eyes and
sitting
No 4 more
for go.
Close your eyes and sit means your visual perception is done.
What are they talking
initially?
These issues are there after some time
you know, whether it's a breeze blowing or somebody talking or
some other rubbish happening, its all about the same, just
noise.
Hello
take some time to figure it out.
Otherwise every sound one sound
is wonderful another sound is horrible. This sound is
beautiful word. That sound is bad word
if you just listen to the sounds,
not simply makeup meanings in your head all the time. Why are
you going on? Typing out things, transcribing things in your
mind? Hello
even now I am saying
this sounds listen
then you will see from where is a sound coming that is that will
nurture your life.
From where is the sound coming which does not nurture your life
because your going on trends cry begin to whatever stupid
language you know
then you do not know the quality of the sound.
Simply learning to listen without any transcription in
your mind is important. Then you would simply know how to be in
rhythm with the natural processes of life.
So Margali is coming, Its good this month. All of you who are
here, at least
maybe we can even tell everybody else from 16th of December
onwards. Or from now we can start at least 20 minutes a day.
Or when you are walking,
when you are doing work.
No, to utter this sound your mouth should be shut. Hmm,
just as much as possible, because this is a reverberation
which will bring a certain vibrance and dynamism to your
energy system.
If body rests
it's OK,
but if you energy sleeps
you are rapidly moving towards death.
Death does not mean how long you live.
Who cares how long me are you live how we live.
Hello,
How will live?
The quality is important
long What does it matter
whether you 78 year, 90 or 160?
What does it matter? Masking
quality of life.
How alive am I to everything in the universe? Has my aliveness
reached its peak peak? Means
See, essentially it's about this. Life is about perception.
What we perceive.
Being totally alive means your antenna is fully on. Everything
there is to be perceived is perceived.
Then you die with the fulfillment of knowing life.
You are full of static.
Yeah. You know, sometimes your phone goes like this. Hello.
Hello. Hello.
All you get is gay.
Depends what service you are on.
Frustrating, isn't it? When you can't hear what you need to
hear. Hello
even for you to get frustrated you must hear for some time and
then not here. Then you will get frustrated. Otherwise you will
die innocent.
This is called as
ignorance is bliss.
It's not bliss, it's just dumb.
Maybe there is no suffering.
There is no ecstasy
for this. You could have come as a rock. At least you could have
used in construction.
Hello,
if you came in the rock
we could have used it somewhere.
What is the use?
The peak of evolution on this planet sits like an inanimate
thing. What is the point of that?
There is no point to that
so
physical body. There are many things to do with it for it to
become fit enough
to hold or station
something of a superior quality
because the platform is equally important. If the platform is
not good, what you house in it will also be not so great.
So in that context, body is very, very important how we keep
it.
It is not about you have
muscles
to show, but you can't turn your neck.
No, not like that,
said he is. It never comes in the way.
If you want to go this way, it will go this way. You want to go
that way. It will go that way.
Wherever you want to take your
life, you can go. Your body will not say, I want to eat these, I
want this, I want that, I want that. It will not take you
somewhere else.
Your body becomes a vehicle which goes where you want, Any
vehicle, any damn vehicle that you drive.
If it does not go where you want,
you will be frustrated and miserable. Yes or no,
You are driving a motorcycle or a car, but it doesn't go where
you want. It goes somewhere.
It wants to go here. It wants to go there by itself. This is a
horrible vehicle, isn't it?
If you understand the body, if you experience the body as a
vehicle and mind as another vehicle
or another part of that vehicle,
they must go where you want to go. If they go somewhere else,
they have not been prepared well,
steering wheel is out of control or engine is not firing enough.
So right now Margali time, we are more concerned about
everything firing properly
so sound can do this. It will also make you slightly
inebriated. But this is an inauguration which does not
bring incapable
Sankaran. Pillai is wife.
Wife
took him to a psychiatrist
because he had become such a compulsive alcoholic.
So the psychiatrist studied for him for some time
and
then after a few $100 of bills,
then he said see your problem means you are using alcohol as
your crutch,
Sankaran Pillai said. I don't agree with that nonsense. If it
was my crutch, why am I falling down all the time?
So
your body should hold you up, not let you down.
Your mind should hold you up, not let you down. Hello.
If it lets you down
today,
so many massive businesses have been built
hoping you will. Your body and your mind will let you down.
So
they are also in the process of market development.
So that is a different business.
But
if you do your sadhana well,
your body will not let you down.
Your mind will never let you down
if you do the right things
in this process, being with the cycles of nature. Also, if you
manage
then it's absolute. It's much, much better.
Otherwise,
winds are not in your favour.
You try to sale
hard work. You have to row
lot of hard work. If you go with the winds, it goes little easy,
much less work.
2 choice. If you like to grow your muscles more than going
somewhere, you want to have big muscles you must grow,
but you want to go somewhere. It doesn't matter. You have
something to show or not,
then you must go. You must be in tune with thoughts around you.
We will start with preparatory asanas
patang Vasna.
Please relax.
Shishu Pallassana
right leg
please relax.
Left leg
please relax.
Nadi Vibhajan
Starting Position
Posture One
Table Posture
2.
Tokyo Head in
Spine Up
H
Second cycle
check your starting position.
3rd Cycle
check your starting position
Please relax.
Now we will start with Shambhavi
Mahamudra.
We will keep the timings for you,
so Please wait for the instructions before you move on
to the next step.
Please set an Artha Siddhasana.
Please close your eyes,
Sukriya.
Yogamudra
I
um
UM
umm
um
am.
Ah, wow.
Um.
Um,
um.
Um,
who am I?
Oh,
am
um.
Um,
um.
Um,
um.
Um,
um
no.
Um,
oh
umm.
Vipreet vishwas
fluttering of breath
bandas
to
Dharma samaj.
Note Ganaraya,
Nitya, Yurman,
Chetan, Ramayan,
Ohm Shanti, Shanti Shanti
Jain.
Take your own time.
Take your own time. Slowly.
Very, very slowly
opening your eyes.